Earlier Topics
==============

Liberal Arts -"Iberus", a free person, obliged to exercise judgement under
conditions of uncertainty. -All problems are multidisaplinary, liberal arts
education supports decision making in those realms.

Canonical Citation

Resolution (verb: "to resolve"). To resolve a citation is to connect a citation
to a passage.

Nature of gods in the Iliad. -Imperfect, but mighty. -People still worshiped
them, gave them sacrafices. -People loved the stores.

War without Sympathes towards one side -Doesn't favor either side -While reading
the Illiad our sympathes do not reside on one side of the conflict. -During the
war even people within the war look at eachother as humans. Achilles crying with
Priam. -Real soilders still manage to not dehumanize thier enemies. PTSD victims
tend to dehumanize and that is a problem.

Gods Intervene A Lot -Suggests something complex about "Fate" -what's going to
happen is going to happen. -Relationship between gods.

"Mt. Stupid" -As knowledge of a subject increases along an x-axis, willingness
to expound on that subject increases along a y-axis rapidly at first then
decreases with increasing knowledge, then resumes its increase as we gain true
expertise. The initial "bump" is "Mt. Stupid".

Mt. Stupid

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
         ^      
        / \      /
  _____/   \____/
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Timeline
========

1200 BCE Origins of Homeric epic. (Bronze Age) 	Agamemnon - Mycenae (Mycenaean
Empire) 	Iliad talks of great empires like the Mycenaean Empire 1000-800 "Dark
Age" 800 BCE (maybe the Iliad and Odyssey were "done"?) Conflicts in text that
show that Odyssey people were poor

500s - Pisistratus was tyrant of Athens. Sponsored festivals: Panathenaia
("All-Athens Festival")  	Contests- Singing poetry From Hippaarchus [228 b]
"Recite them in relay"

300s - Plato, Athens

Argument #1 Homer must have been a single, awesome poet, because the Iliad is so
perfect.

Argument #2 The Iliad is so perfect that i cannot possibly have been the work of
a single poet. -World without righting -People sang songs about wars and heroes
-Illiterate people come up with ways to describe things poetically this lead to
the ability to talk about things. Like Jazz working with a structure that helps
keep everything different but similar and easy to create. -Iliad word form seems
to come from many different eras of greek language

Knossos Tablet sd4403 (c. 1450-1375 bce) -list of chariots -From very prosperous
parts of greece. -first time Greeks learned to write. -Civilizations collapsed
and Greeks didn't need to write things down. Required Scribes because language
was too complicated. -Liniar B was the language

After Dark Ages 800 BCE -New alphabet that was easy to learn. Many people
learned how to read and write. -Busted potery was the scrap paper of the ancient
world



### Textual Variation -As you make copies of documents the variation increases until we see the printing press.

Compared to Iliad Earliest Quotations - very differnt Ptolemaic Editors -
somewhat different Midevial Manuscripts - Much more cohesive

This is very different from all other literature that was derived from a single
author

Bysantine Manuscripts actually cite older scholars work.  They also have notes
on how the ancient greek lanuge works. You can't figure out everything about
homer with out knowing everything about the greek language. There are still
words with unknown origins

(Words could be totally mispelled just an example) Aiantov - Even the greek
scholars didn't know what the words meant. They just wrote down the accurate
data. Aiamno - Means well-fitted based on very old Linear B Can fit into Iliad
in place of Aiantov.

### Verbal Tense before... couldn't talk about things in the past as well. now... Can talk about the past, and the future We - Write in present tense Ancient Romans - used apistolarin perfect, wrote in past tense, from the perspective of the reader

At Furman - Describing something that happens in literature use the present
tense by default.

Gospel according to John In the beginning was th Word. And the word was with
God. And the word was God.

Gospel according to Luke With many people having undertaken to compile and
account of those things that acme to pass among us, some having been
eyewitnesses from the outset and others having [later] become servents of the
Word, it seemed best also to me, my dear Theophilus, to narrate, in order, from
the top, those things that have been revealed to us so that you might have
confidence in the matters in which you have been instructed.

Very different ways of writing. Neither is right or wrong. John - short
sentences not telling you how their connected. Mysterious not clear. Luke - long
sentences. weaving together 14 different ideas. I'm the boss type idea.

Achilles would not give up his rage. The Trojans lose their leader, Hector. //
perfectly reasonable way to say two ideas. -Simple sentences that are still
meaningful. (Hemmingway) Achilles will not give up his rage, and so the Trojans
lose their leader, Hector. // Taking charge telling the reader the logical
consequences. -Each is an independant clause, can stand by itself.

Achilles is angry. Achilles cries to his mother. Achilles is angry and so cries
to his mother. // no comma because the subject is the same. Achilles is angry,
and so he cries to his mother. // requires comma because it's two independent
clauses.

Achilles is angry; his mother is sympathetic. //Could easily be two sentences.
Semicolon is okay when it replaces a period and for some reason doesn't need a
stronger connection. Achilles is angry and his mother is sympathetic. //Strong
connection

Read Aenied Book 1 & 2

### Common Aprevations 

i.e. 		(id est) = "that is...; To wit..." - Explaination, another way of saying
what you just said. Sometimes helpful if you are doing something complicated.

e.g. 		(est gerendum) = "For example..." - For example, I am going to give you
an example of what I just talked about.

n.b. 		(nota bene) = "Note well..." - Hey here is something you should pay
attention to.

s.v. 		(sub vocem) = "Look this thing up under the heading..."

e.g. "Aeneas is the son of Venus **s.v. Aphrodite**"

vel sim.	(vel similia) = "or similar things" - fancy way of saying etc., stuff
like that, val sim.

etc.		(et cetera) = "and the other things; And others" - Et Katera

&c.		(et cetera) because & = et = Ampersand = "And per se."

### Something to Remember

“Folly”. cp. Barbara Tuchman, *The March of Folly*.

**Archetype** - The first instance of something happening that other things can
be based upon.

**Achetype of Folly** - When a govnement follows a particular decision that
leads to the opposite of what the government wants.

Popes bring about protestant reformation

King George III intentially throws away the North American colonists despite
colonies wanting to be good Englishman.

Germans in the Great War. How to prevent Americans from joining war, open fire
on ships in atlantic.

Japan in WWII didn’t want to US intervention.

Passive Voice
-------------

Active and Passive Voice

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
sub.     v.      d.o.
Achilles abuses Agamemnon. 
subject |   predicate    | s    | v       do     |
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1.  Achilles abuses Agamemnon. 2. Agamemnon abuses Achilles.

2.  Achilles is    abused by    Agamemnon.    s     v  agency phrase    do

3 = 2; 2 better than 3;Passive voice

Mistakes were made.    s       v  
Useful use of **passive voice** without using agency phrase. Admit to mistakes
and saying you're  Called passive voice - Passo "suffer or experience" - The
subject suffers/experinces the action being done on them



Can use passive voice can be used if it’s too combersom to avoid it.

+--------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| PV - actually preferable | Hector’s fate is to be killed by Achilles. |
+--------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| AV                       | Hector’s fate is for Achilles to kill him. |
+--------------------------+--------------------------------------------+

Use it to draw attention if you want.

+--------------+--------------------------------------------------+
| PV           | Priam is slaughtered at the alter.               |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------+
| PV - deluded | Priam is slaughtered by the greeks at the alter. |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------+
| AV           | Pyrrhus slaughters Priam at the alter.           |
+--------------+--------------------------------------------------+



### Assignments

1.  Hector was killed by Achilles.

2.  Hector has been killed by Achilles.

3.  Once hectored had been killed by Achilles, it is known by us that troy was
    sacked by the greeks.

4.  After Troy was sacked by the Greeks, they to the gods were failed offerings
    made.

5.  Greeks were punished by the gods by having their homecomings delayed.

6.  Poseidon was urged by Hera to have the ship destroyed by Odysseus’.

7.  Odysseus’ ship was sunk by a violent storm, but he was rescued by the girl
    Nausika whose father, Alkinoös whom Phaeacia was ruled by, was brought to
    him.

### Summaries of Book II **NOT** in Passive Voice

Aeneas starts to retell the story, which causes him sorrow. He tells the story
of the Trojan Horse. The Greeks used several levels of trickery to deceive the
Trojans. The greeks won victory for this.

Pyrrhus slaughters Priam. Aeneas was left along and decided to flee. He threw he
father onto his back. He fled Troy but he forgot his wife.

### Summaries of Book II in Passive Voice

The story started to be retold by Aenease, which caused sorrow to be brought to
him. The Trojan horses’ story was told by Him. Several levels of trickery were
used by the greeks to deceive the trojans. Victory was won by the Greeks for
this.

Priam was slaughtered by Pyrrhus. Alone was Aeneas and fleeing was decided. His
father was thrown on his back. His wife forgotten, Troy was fled by him.

Book I of Aeniad
================

**Opening of Iliad **-* Rage, sing it, Goddess, of Peleus' son Achilles.*

Rage is extremely important in the Iliad. Evoke the Goddess whose responsible
for the poem. Peleus’ marriage which was the start of the whole problem.
Achilles who is a main character.

**Opening of Aeniad** - *I sing of warfare and a man at war. || From the
sea-coast of Troy in early days…||... high walls of Rome.*

I, Virgil, am the one who did this. What and who. From Troy to Rome. Right off
the bat.

### Other Analysis

-   Homer is fairly even handed. Virgil highly favors the Trojans.

-   Doesn’t waste time settting up the divide Carthage and Rome.

-   Juno is still angry because Paris’s decision to stub her beauty.

-   Aeniad: Scene from natural world - simile from real historical events - back
    to events  
    Iliad: Scene from natural word - simile from nature (about pigs and stuff) -
    back to events

    -   Represents a change in the purpose of the text

    -   Uses this as a way to draw attention to the work. Use a standard (epic
        poem) and change it slightly and add our own awesome features.

-   Aeniad: I am Aeneas,** duty-bound**, and known

    -   Always duty bound or *pius*

    -   Epithets vary in Iliad but Aeneas is alwasy duty-bound

-   Iliad is about rage and emotions and people, Aeniad is about founding Rome
    and it being awesome

-   Lots of foreshadowing right off the bet.

Grammer Thing
=============

Who and Whom

If you can S V them than it’s whom.

If it is the subject than it’s who.

-   Juno, *whom* the greeks knew as Hera.

-   *Who* was Eros to the Greeks.
